[RLlib; docs] Docs do-over (new API stack): Env pages vol 02. (#48542)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/rllib/rllib-env.rst

single ``config`` parameter and return a single (non-vectorized)
`gymnasium.Env <https://github.com/Farama-Fundation/Gymnasium/blob/main/gymnasium/core.py>`__ instance.

For example:

.. testcode::

    from ray.tune.registry import register_env

    def env_creator(config):
        return MyDummyEnv(config)  # return a gymnasium.Env instance.

    register_env("my_env", env_creator)
    config = (
        PPOConfig()
        .environment("my_env")  # <- Tune registered string pointing to your custom env creator
    )
    algo = config.build()
    print(algo.train())

For a complete example using a custom environment, see the
`custom_gym_env.py example script <https://github.com/ray-project/ray/blob/master/rllib/examples/envs/custom_gym_env.py>`__.

.. warning::

    Due to Ray's distributed nature, gymnasium's own registry is incompatible
    with Ray. Always use the registration method documented here to ensure
    remote Ray actors can access your custom environments.

In the preceding example, the ``env_creator`` function takes a ``config`` argument.
This config is primarily a dictionary containing required settings.

> However, you can also access additional properties within the ``config`` variable (ex.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, you can also access additional properties within the ``config`` variable. For example,
```

> ``config.worker_index`` to get the remote EnvRunner index or ``config.num_workers``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
use ``config.worker_index`` to get the remote EnvRunner index or ``config.num_workers``
```

> for the total number of EnvRunners used). This can help customize environments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for the total number of EnvRunners used. This approach can help customize environments
```

within an ensemble and make environments running on some EnvRunners behave differently from
those running on other EnvRunners.

For example:

.. code-block:: python

    class EnvDependingOnWorkerAndVectorIndex(gym.Env):
        def __init__(self, config):

>             # pick actual env based on worker and env indexes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            # Pick actual env based on worker and env indexes.
```

            self.env = gym.make(
                choose_env_for(config.worker_index, config.vector_index)
            )
            self.action_space = self.env.action_space
            self.observation_space = self.env.observation_space

        def reset(self, seed, options):
            return self.env.reset(seed, options)

        def step(self, action):
            return self.env.step(action)

    register_env("multi_env", lambda config: MultiEnv(config))

.. tip::

    When using logging within an environment, the configuration must be done

>     inside the environment (running within Ray workers). Pre-Ray logging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    inside the environment (running within Ray workers). RLlib ignores pre-Ray logging
```

>     configurations will be ignored. Use the following code to connect to Ray's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    configurations. Use the following code to connect to Ray's
```

    logging instance:

    .. testcode::

        import logging
        logger = logging.getLogger("ray.rllib")

Performance and Scaling
-----------------------

.. figure:: images/envs/env_runners.svg
    :width: 600

    **EnvRunner with gym.Env setup:** Environments in RLlib are located within the :py:class:`~ray.rllib.envs.env_runner.EnvRunner` actors, whose number

>     (`n`) you can scale through the `config.env_runners(num_env_runners=..)` setting. Each such :py:class:`~ray.rllib.envs.env_runner.EnvRunner` actor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    (`n`) you can scale through the `config.env_runners(num_env_runners=..)` setting. Each :py:class:`~ray.rllib.envs.env_runner.EnvRunner` actor
```

>     itself can hold more than one `gymnasium <https://gymnasium.farama.org>`__ environment (vectorized). You can set the number

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    can hold more than one `gymnasium <https://gymnasium.farama.org>`__ environment (vectorized). You can set the number
```

    of individual environment copies per EnvRunner through `config.env_runners(num_envs_per_env_runner=..)`.

> There are two methods to scale sample collection with RLlib and `gymnasium <https://gymnasium.farama.org>`__ environments, both of which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two methods to scale sample collection with RLlib and `gymnasium <https://gymnasium.farama.org>`__ environments. You can use both
```

> can be used in combination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in combination.
```

1. **Distribute across multiple processes:** RLlib creates multiple

>    :py:class:`~ray.rllib.envs.env_runner.EnvRunner` instances (each a Ray actor) for experience collection,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :py:class:`~ray.rllib.envs.env_runner.EnvRunner` instances, each a Ray actor, for experience collection,
```

   controlled through your :py:class:`~ray.rllib.algorithms.algorithm_config.AlgorithmConfig`:
   ``config.env_runners(num_env_runners=..)``.

1. **Vectorization within a single process:** Many environments achieve high
   frame rates per core but are limited by policy inference latency. To address

>    this, create multiple environments per process and thus batch the policy forward pass

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   this limitation, create multiple environments per process to batch the policy forward pass
```

   across these vectorized environments. Set ``config.env_runners(num_envs_per_env_runner=..)``
   to create more than one environment copy per :py:class:`~ray.rllib.envs.env_runner.EnvRunner`
   actor. Additionally, you can make the individual sub-environments within a vector

>    independent processes (through python's multiprocessing used by gymnasium).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   independent processes through Python's multiprocessing used by gymnasium.
```

   Set `config.env_runners(remote_worker_envs=True)` to create individual subenvironments as separate processes
   and step them in parallel.

.. note::

>     Multi-agent setups are not vectorizable yet. The Ray team is working on a solution for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Multi-agent setups aren't vectorizable yet. The Ray team is working on a solution for
```

>     this restriction by utilizing `gymnasium >= 1.x` custom vectorization feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    this restriction by using the `gymnasium >= 1.x` custom vectorization feature.
```

.. tip::

    See the `scaling guide <rllib-training.html#scaling-guide>`__ for more on RLlib training at scale.

Expensive Environments
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Some environments may require substantial resources to initialize and run. Should your environments require

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some environments may require substantial resources to initialize and run. If your environments require
```
